CONSOLE-2892: Allow dynamic plugins to proxy to services on the cluster (#915)
openshift/enhancements: enhancements/console/dynamic-plugins.md

    basePath: '/'
```

> In case the plugin needs to communicate with an in-cluster services, it can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case the plugin needs to communicate with other in-cluster services, it can
```

> declare the communication in it's `ConsolePlugin` manifest, defining

Reviewer: ```suggestion
declare such services via `spec.proxyServices` in the `ConsolePlugin` resource manifest.
```

> `spec.proxyService` array field entry. In there service `name`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each entry in `spec.proxyServices` must refer to an in-cluster service via `name`,
`namespace` and `port`. The console backend ...
```

> `spec.proxyService` array field entry. In there service `name`,

Reviewer: +1 this is consistent with the possibility to host plugin assets via explicit URL, instead of via current in-cluster service definition (name, namespace, port).

> `spec.proxyService` array field entry. In there service `name`,

Author: 👍 I like the idea. 
It also came to my mind that we could have `spec.services` array field which would contain the required fields like `name`, `namespace`, `port` and `basePath` (which are so far common) together with `type` enum field, which would in this case be `Proxy`.   The `spec.services` array field would also contain other optional fields, like mentioned `caCertificate` or `authorize`.
But that might be more clear down the road when we decide to promote `ConsolePlugin` to `v1beta1` or even to `v1`.

> `namespace`, `port` and `basePath` needs to specified. The console backend

Author: hmm for some reason I though that the request will need the `basePath` as well but you are right that thats just the case of public assets

> `namespace`, `port` and `basePath` needs to specified. The console backend

Reviewer 2: Right, that's what I was thinking to keep things simple.

> will proxy the plugin request to the dependent service using the service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will proxy the plugin request to the specified service using the service
```

> CA bundle.

Reviewer 2: Do we require https? It would be good to state that here if so.

> CA bundle.

Author: > Your example has a CA certificate. So I'm assuming we don't always use the service CA bundle?

So I thought we wanna use the custom service-ca if the service is using a custom CA. If not we will default to the  service CA bundle.

> Do we require https? It would be good to state that here if so.

So when we are creating a service endpoint thats constructed from <service-name>-<service-namespace>:<service-port> it needs to be https. So I guess the https is requred otherwise the the service server will respond with `http: server gave HTTP response to HTTPS client`

> After that plugin can make request to the console endpoint, which will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Console backend provides the following endpoint to proxy plugin requests to the relevant
service: `/api/plugin-proxy/<proxy-service-name>/<request-path>`
```

proxy the request to the dependent service. Plugin's request shall use
following console's endpoint:

> `/api/plugin-proxy/<dependent-service-name>/<request-path>`

Reviewer 2: Maybe

```suggestion
`/api/proxy/namespace/<service-namespace>/service/<service-name>:<port-number>/<request-path>?<optional-query-parameters>`

I'd suggest providing a concrete example URL and what service URL that it maps to.
```

> `/api/plugin-proxy/<dependent-service-name>/<request-path>`

Reviewer: Another option is to use e.g. `/api/proxy/<plugin-name>/<service-name>/<request-path>`

> `/api/plugin-proxy/<dependent-service-name>/<request-path>`

Reviewer 2: Service name is not unique... A plugin can proxy to two services with the same name in different namespaces, or the same service, but different ports.

> In case the service is using a custom service-ca, `caCertificate` field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case the service is using a custom service CA, `caCertificate` field
```

for the service can be specified. In case the the service proxy request

> shall contain user's authentication token, the `authorize` field needs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
needs to contain user's authentication token, the `authorize` field can
```

> shall contain user's authentication token, the `authorize` field needs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
shall contain user's OpenShift access token, the `authorize` field needs
```

> to be set to `true`, otherwise the token won't be part of the proxy request.

Reviewer 2: I'd mention that the token is passed using the `Authorization` request header.

```yaml
apiVersion: console.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: ConsolePlugin
metadata:
  name: my-plugin
spec:
  displayName: 'My Plugin'
  service:
    name: my-console-plugin
    namespace: my-operator-namespace
    port: 8443
    basePath: '/'

>   proxyService:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  proxyServices:
```

  - name: plugin-dependent-service
    namespace: plugin-dependent-service-namespace
    port: 8443
    basePath: '/'

>     caCertificate: '-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\nMIID....'

Reviewer 2: Typically this would be a config map reference instead of specified inline.

Author: Right, I just saw that some structs are using inlined CA certs so wanted to give it a try.
Also wanted to avoid granting console || console-operator any additional rights, otherwise the CM would need to be created in the `openshift-config-managed` || `openshift-config` (depends on the implementation). Or we could create a separate NS for this but not sure if thats not an overkill... 
Thoughts ?

Author: route API is inlining the cert https://github.com/openshift/api/blob/master/route/v1/types.go#L234

    basePath: '/'
```

> In case the plugin needs to communicate with other in-cluster service, it can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case the plugin needs to communicate with some in-cluster service, it can
```

> declare a service proxy in it's `ConsolePlugin` resource using the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
declare a service proxy in its `ConsolePlugin` resource using the
```

`spec.proxy.services` array field. A service `name`, `namespace` and `port`

> needs to specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
needs to be specified.
```

Console backend exposes following endpoint in order to proxy the communication
between plugin and the service:
`/api/proxy/namespace/<service-namespace>/service/<service-name>:<port-number>/<request-path>?<optional-query-parameters>`

An example proxy request path from plugin to `helm-charts` service,
in `helm` namespace to list ten helm releases:
`/api/proxy/namespace/helm/service/helm-charts:8443/releases?limit=10`

> Proxied request will be using using the service CA bundle by default. For

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Proxied request will use the service CA bundle by default. For
```

Reviewer: I think we should mention here something like "default Console service CA bundle" or similar, not sure how to word it properly.

that reason HTTPS communication between plugin and the service is required.
In case the service is using a custom service CA, `caCertificate` field

> for the service can be specified. In case the the service proxy request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for the service can be specified. In case the service proxy request
```

> needs to contain user's OpenShift access token, the `authorize` field needs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
needs to contain logged in user's OpenShift access token, the `authorize` field needs
```

> to be set to `true`. Token will be then passed using the `Authorization`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to be set to `true`. Access token will be then passed using the HTTP `Authorization`
```
